Oh, honestly, he shouldn't have.
You're going to need it.
Gabriel leaving to serve where the need is greater.
Made us feel like we missed the chance to expand our ministry.
Why don't we start now?
We're not getting any younger.
Yeah, we could ask the circuit obviously if we're going to have a vice on his next visit,
I'm worried he's going to say we should join the new language group.
It's a big need in our circuit.
We've never felt like the right people to serve in a foreign language.
Brother Lindstrom shared Zechariah 823 with us,
which helped us to see how we could have a hand in help in men out of all the languages of the nations.
Learn about Jehovah.
Learning was a struggle at first.
But with Jehovah's help, we made progress.
Slowly, even though the language was a challenge,
loving our new family was not.
Shukar Sabai.
Shukar Sabai?
I'm an alien.
Do you know Romani?
Oh, yeah, I know.
Sarisiklin, Marijib.
It's Vinny.
Moment.
I don't understand.
Morate soni akava.
Say again what you say.
I'm Shukar Sabai.
I'm off to know Elia.
I'm going to see you again.
Come on, Dres.
Come on.
OK.
Oh, thank you.
It's true.
We aren't getting any younger.
And that's why we're so glad we took the chance to expand our ministry.
If you told me two years ago that I'd be moving where the need was greater,
I would have laughed.
It all started when they announced a special preaching campaign.
My friend Samuel encouraged me to apply with him.
So what do you think?
Yeah.
No, but you enjoy that.
I know you're going to love it.
That's why I got you a form as well.
All right, we can do this.
OK.
I knew I could do more.
But I was comfortable.
I like doing things on my own terms.
But really, I was afraid of the unknown.
I needed to examine my heart.
When I read about Abraham's faith at Hebrews 118,
it's like the words jumped off the page.
He went out, although not knowing where he was going.
Who better to be in control of my life than Jehovah?
A door was open to me.
I just needed to go through it.
And what I experienced changed my life.
The results of the campaign were incredible.
And the experience pushed me out of my comfort zone.
All right, Gabe, I'm going to trust you.
Come on, give it a try.
I saw the ministry in a new way, and I wanted to do more.
So I calculated the cost and worked with my local elders
to write to the branch office.
When I heard back with some suggestions,
I prayed about it and did research before choosing.
There were many unknowns, but I couldn't wait.
It was hard to say goodbye to my friends.
But I was ready for whatever Jehovah had installed me.
At our convention, they had the meeting
for the School for Kingdom of Angelizers.
My friend Anton asked if I was going to go.
Thank you, Bill.
Oh, hey, Anton.
Are you coming?
To what?
The ESK meeting.
Oh, no, I wasn't planning on it.
But all right.
Yeah, sure.
I'll go.
OK, then.
I'll have to wait a second.
I went, but I felt conflicted.
I thought I already have an assignment, one that I love.
But I didn't fully understand the incredible privilege
of attending ESK.
I asked the circuit officer a few more questions,
and it felt like this is it.
It seemed right, and all I had to do was apply online.
That was months ago.
Saw us folding you back.
I feel like Jehovah led me here, and I've never been happier.
But now, another door's opened, and the fear's back.
It doesn't matter how far you've come.
Fear in the unknown could be overwhelming.
Sometimes you need a reminder that Jehovah's leading you
in the right direction.
Here's one to keep in mind.
Philippians 4, 13.
Read it.
And just think about how far Jehovah's taking you.
For all things, I have the strength
through the one who gives me power.
Jehovah is in control.
What was I so afraid of?
I'm bringing too much.
Well, ESK is for two months.
Well, you were just to light you too.
Bringing every last thing with you.
Can I?
Can I leave this with you?
It's been on a few adventures, but it's still great for travel.
Really?
Yeah, please.
Who knows, you might need it sometimes, too.
When I learned I was invited to work for a few weeks
on the upcoming construction project.
I was thrilled.
But I'm excitement, quickly turning to anxiety
because of what I had to do.
I pray to Jehovah for weeks to give me the strength
to have the conversation with my employer.
So I wanted to, first of all, say thank you for taking it.
I began to explain about the construction project
and how I'd been invited to volunteer.
I really like the time to serve.
So you want time off?
During the busiest time of our year?
Well, yes.
It's your choice.
But on the no circumstances will uphold your position.
Suddenly, this beautiful privilege felt like a huge risk.
Was I making my life more complicated by doing this?
I read the account about the people in Nehemiah's day.
They will in spirit demonstrate it faith
and Jerusalem's walls were built by people
who put their heart into the work.
I didn't want to miss out on the opportunity
to serve Jehovah in that way.
This is my resignation letter.
I have to have faith that Jehovah will bless my decision.
I'm not sure what the future holds when I get back.
But I know Jehovah will take care of me.
For now, I'm going to focus on putting my heart
into the work.
When a disaster struck in the north of the country,
we immediately answered the call for help.
Seeing our brothers and sisters in need was heartbreaking.
But what really touched our heart
was the spirit of the local brothers and sisters.
They were like the Macedonians.
They didn't have much, but they gave generously from the heart.
When we got home, Madeline and I
resolved to show the same kind of spirit.
First, our appreciation led us to review
our contribution to the worldwide work.
I've come up with this figure.
Is this right?
Yes.
That's just like Jehovah.
We looked for ways to be generous to those around us.
We discovered that we had the means to give more
so we didn't hold back.
And then our congregation was invited
to help with a special preaching campaign.
I think we could do a bit more.
Could we push ourselves a bit further?
I'd really like to.
It was within our power to help.
And that's exactly what we did.
I'm bringing too much.
No, of course not.